Risk Survey Report    

Insured Name: Qatar Air Distribution Network QAD-NET  
Survey Date: 21-Sep-2023 
Report no: QG-SR/2023/09/10958 
Location: New Industrial area   
Issue Date: 25-Sep-2023 
Prepared By: Ayman Salameh 

Category Class: 3 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qatar General Insurance - Risk Survey Report for QAD-NET  

1-  Introduction & Business Description  

The  purpose  of  this  report  is  to  assess  the  risk  and  loss  control  activities  with  regard  to  Fire 
Insurance coverage for insurers and reinsurers. Also, to collect and gather information regarding 
the general construction, occupancy, operations, maintenance program, any existing hazards and 
exposure and fire protection system at the risk address, where the report provides a description 
of the risk address surveyed and give as risk assessment of Probable Maximum Loss – PML with 
respect to Fire Insurance coverage. 

Executive Summary 
Qatar  Air  Distribution  Network  Manufacturing  Factory  W.L.L.  (QADNET)  a  major  supplier  and 
manufacturer of Central Air Conditioning Products. QADNET was established in 2004 in response 
to the growing need resulting from the economic boom in the Middle East and particularly in Qatar. 

Operation: 
QADNET  has  a  manufacturing  and  assembly  workshop  facility  for  Central  Air  conditioning 
products  added with  significant  storage capacity  for  both  the  raw material  and finished goods. 
Today  QADNET  is  associated  with  leading  brands  like  Safe  Air  DOWCO  -  USA,  Commercial 
Acoustic - USA, Flameshield - United Kingdom, Crayford Techincs Ltd. - United Kingdom, BJC 
Enterprises Pty Ltd - Australia and many others reflecting its scaled growth and expansion. 
QADNET has invested in state-of-the-art machinery and the latest technology, which allows it to 
produce  HVAC  products  with  the  highest  standard  thereby  ensuring  smooth  site  co-ordination 
and installations. All the projects irrespective of their size are undertaken with great attention. 

Exposure 
The  factory  building  is  located  approximately  22  kilometers  away  from  Hamad  International 
Airport.  The  building  is  surrounded  by  a  concrete  fence  wall  with  access  controlled  through 
manned gate. The subject factory building is also surrounded by paved roads with easy access 
to the site, and all adjacent warehouses are located at a minimum distance of 20 meters from the 
risk addressed. 

Construction 
The factory building is constructed on steel frame with external 2m high dwarf cement block walls 
with combustible foam insulated sandwich panel. The warehouse floors are concrete with smooth 
finish. An office block with ground level is provided within the factory with reinforced concrete slab 
floor on steel frame internal masonry walls.  
Due to the presence of combustible foam core sandwich panel, we consider the entire building to 
be one fire zone. 
Building/ area  

Story/Levels 

Plot area (sqm) 
Roof height (m) approx. 
Building structure 
Roof Structure  
Roof 
Exterior walls 
Floor construction 
% Combustible / Non-Comb 

Warehouse Building 
Office block constructed of ground. 
Factory building (ground floor) production lines and 
engineering office. 
3,985 sqm 
7 meters 
Steel & concrete structure  
Steel 
Combustible sandwich panel 
Combustible sandwich panel 
Concrete  
50 % Combustible / 50 Non-combustible  

Page 2 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
Qatar General Insurance - Risk Survey Report for QAD-NET  

2-  Risk Data 

2.1 Layout and Construction 

Construction type 

The factory building is constructed of concrete walls, roof and floor 
with  steel  frame  structure  –  ground  floor.  The  external  walls  are 
provided with cement block walls with glass window and sandwich 
panel sheets. The walls of are constructed of concrete and covered 
by  sandwich  panel  sheets  to  reduce  the  temperature  inside  the 
building only. The building has a storage area, loading/unloading 
sections, and a security guard room at the entrance gate.   

Number of floors/Levels 

The factory building: Ground floor 
Office building ground floor. 

Construction grade  

Distance with adjacent 
building  

2.2 Occupancy  

Building summary  

Plant and Machinery  

Production  

Occupancy  

2.3 Utilities 

Power & Water 

Transformer  

ISO Type 5 Modified or Semi Fire Resistive (MSR or SFR) 
The roof is constructed of steel frame with sandwich panel sheets.   

15 meters  

The factory building contains storage spaces at the ground floor 
and production line for AC ducting products, and some final 
products are kept at the open yard at the entrance.  
The  warehouse  utilizes  an  electric  powered  forklift  and  air-
conditioning is provided to factory and office by split units. 
Cutting machines that used in prefabricated Duct  
Prefabricated  ducting  is  manufactured.  The  factory  is  used  for 
prefabricated of ducting and assembly of Ducting Networks. 
Specialized  company  is  air  distribution  ducting  works  where  all 
stock  materials  are  metal  sheets  and  joints.  Stock  materials  are 
duct accessories, damper, door access, prefabricated ducts, filters, 
grille and diffusers. 

The power and water supply to the site is provided by the Public 
Authority Company (Kahramaa) 

Not  Accessible,  transformers  are  under  the  care,  custody  and 
control of Kahramaa. 

Cooling/HVAC 

Only office are Air-conditioned by AC units installed at the building. 

Page 3 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qatar General Insurance - Risk Survey Report for QAD-NET  

3-  Loss Prevention & Mitigation  

3.1 Management Program Human Element   

Safety inspection & audit  

Implemented  

Smoking Policy  

Smoking is not allowed, and “No Smoking” signages are posted  

Fire doors 

Fire doors are installed type FR (90)  

Housekeeping 

Third party staff in place for general waste collection, where 
metal skip bins are provided and disposed on daily basis. 
Overall housekeeping standard is good.  

Hazard identification 

Yes   

3.2 Fire Protection System 

Element 

Sprinklers 

Fire Extinguisher  

Hose reel 

Hydrants 

Smoke Detection 

Fire brigade  

Emergency response 

Call point call 

FM-200 

Fire pump 
specification & fire 
tank capacity  

Fire/Smoke Detection 

Utility Building 

Yes 

No 

Remarks 

        X  

        X 

        X 

        X 

X 

        X 

        X 

        X 

X 

There is a fire pump room located underground. The fire pump 
consists of electric, diesel and jockey engines.  
1250 GPM @ 118 PSI with 2900 RPM. The fire tank size is 57,240 
gallons  
Automatic fire detection system is installed throughout the building, 
also beam detection installed within the factory and office building and 
utility rooms. 
Substation, security guard room are constructed with masonry block 
walls and concrete roof structure. 

Fire Brigade  

Expected time approximately 15-20 minutes  

Compartmentalization   Entire building is considered as ONE FIRE ZONE 

3.3 Security and access to the building  

Access Control 

One gate for entrance and protected by steel metal door  

Security personnel 

Currently there is security personnel around the clock, provided by 
contract security staff in two shifts. 

Page 4 of 11 

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qatar General Insurance - Risk Survey Report for QAD-NET  

4-  Exposure and Hazards  

4.1 External Exposure     

Neighboring 
premises exposure   

There is significant exposure as there is low hazards neighboring premises 
and NATCAT exposure. Buildings are not adjacent or closed  

Vehicle & Aircraft 
exposure   

Vehicle impact: The building located away from street vehicle and there is 
access around the building 
Aircraft:  the  building  located  at  Industrial  area  and  away  from  Hamad 
International Airport it is also considered as Very Low  

4.2 Internal Exposure  

Activity exposure 

The main purpose of the building is metal pipe coating and metal works 
which is a Low exposure activity 

Human element  

Management programs and access control are in place 

Arson exposure 

4.3 Hazards 

The  outstanding  security  and  access  and  safety  procedure  so  it  is 
considered as Very Low. Good management/ employee relationship and 
no relevant history or special circumstance happened. 

Occupancy Hazard 

There  are  no  significant  hazards  due  to  business  operation  type  (metal 
pipes coating and Office Building), human element and control in place. 

Storage hazard  

Flammable and compressed gases: 

-  Few quantities of gas cylinders used for welding operation at the 

risk addressed. 

separate room constructed of RCC structure for paint works.   

4.4 Other Perils (Natural Catastrophe Hazards) 

Earthquake  

Tsunami /Flood 

Windstorm 

Lighting  

According to Munich Re’s “Maps of World Natural Hazards” the site located 
in a zone 1 earthquake classification area. 
There are no rivers or large bodies of water in the area. the region is desert 
with  an  infrequent  rainfall.  Heavy  rain  is  experienced  and  can  be 
accompanied  by  flash  flooding.  Tsunami  on  Qatar  Coast  as  detailed  in 
Munich Re Maps of World Natural Hazards is very low. 
Per Munich Re’s “Maps of World Natural Hazards” the site is classified as 
outside  the  affected  area  for  tropical  and  extra-tropical  storms  and  is  in 
Zone 1 for both Tornado and Hailstorm exposure. 

Per  Munich  Re’s  “Maps  of  World  Natural  Hazards”  the  site  is  classified 
within a low frequency area for lighting with expected 0.2-1 strikes a year. 

Page 5 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qatar General Insurance - Risk Survey Report for QAD-NET  

5- Risk Analysis   

5.1 Risk location and Separation   
We defined the single risk as maximum loss, which could be sustained on single risk which 
can be envisaged in the worst circumstances allowing for complete loss of all property due to 
full failure of fire division protection, firefighting equipment or any other protective measures. 
Loss of profit and business interruption the loss of potential must be calculated at 80% of the 
Sum Insured. For this risk it is a Single Risk 
Risk location  The premise is located at New Industrial area – Qatar (Zone: 81, Street: 7 & 

Building: 150), where the risk is approximately 22 kilometers away from 
Hamad International Airport and there is no surrounding properties or 
neighbor. 
GPS: N: 25°9’ 30.621’ & E: 51° 24’ 17.697” 

5.2 Risk Quality  

5.2.1 Risk Grading: Summery features of the risk are shown in the table below 

Property layout 

Good 

Management Program 

Fire water supply 

Adequate  

Maintenance & Inspection 

Fixed protection 

Adequate  

Housekeeping 

Manual firefighting  Good  

Outside exposure 

Low 

Emergency 

Security  

Overall Property Grading: Good   

Good 

Good 

Good 

Good 

Good 

5.2.2 Common Insured perils risk assessments are shown in the table below 

Risk 

Fire  

Probability   Severity  

Comments 

Likely   

Moderate  

Occupancy type may form significant loss 

Page 6 of 11 

 
 
 
Qatar General Insurance - Risk Survey Report for QAD-NET  

Water 
Damage 

Remote 

Minor 

Leaking system would if unchecked could case 
soft fabric damages to the property and some 
furniture and electric lifts, but continuous 
maintenance plan is in place reduces the risk. 

Burglary/Theft  Unlikely 

Slight 

The site security manned 24/7  

Vehicle 
Impact  

Aircraft 
Damage 

Explosion 

Strikes, Riots, 
& Civil 
Commotion 

Unlikely 

Minor 

Unlikely 

Minor 

Extremely 
improbable  

Catastrophic 

The premises protected from the street 
vehicles, but the possibility cannot be 
eliminated. 
The building is 12 km away from Hamad 
International Airport  
There is no equipment or storage that can 
case explosion  

Unlikely  

Minor 

There is no history of such risk in Qatar 

Natural Perils  Likely 

Moderate  

Some heavy rainfall damage occurred  

Risk assessment conclusion for this risk is within acceptance range  

Risk level 

Action Priority  

High Risk  

Immediate action to be completed (Required Action) 

Medium Risk 

Action to be completed within 6-8 months (Required Action) 

Low Risk 

No action required/Action to be completed within 12 months 

Detailed  grading  assessments  are  included  within  this  report  to  explain  this  rating.  Where 

appropriate. 

Observation of risk features: 

-  There is a sprinkler system at the risk address. 

-  Raw material and finished products are metal sheets and metal parts and joints. 

Page 7 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qatar General Insurance - Risk Survey Report for QAD-NET  

6-   Sum Insured, Loss History & Loss Estimates    

Sum Insured details are shown in the table below. 
The Sum Insured  

6.1 Sum Insured Details   

1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

Description  

Furniture & Fixtures 

Office Equipment 

Buildings 

Electrical Installation 

Fire Fighting Equipment 

Ducting Machineries 

Inventory 

Vehicles parked outside the building 

Total Sum Insured  

Value in (QAR) 

 933,246.99 

 1,584,892.50 

 12,471,158.27 

 614,550.00 

885,219.00 

7,056,224.45 

6,746,776.33 

2,205,488.80 

 32,497,556.34 

6.2 Loss History  

No reported loss or damages reported since the past 3 years   

Date  

N/A 

N/A 

Circumstances 

Loss Amount in (QAR) 

N/A 

6.3 Estimated Loss EML & PML   

The loss estimates presented here are based on industry experiences and information provided 
by  the  client.  The  calculation  of  estimate  is  based  on  the  review  of  the  building  structure, 
operations, fire-fighting facilities system at the time of survey. 

Definition of PML 
PML  -  Probable  Maximum  Loss:  the  highest  normal  loss  to  fire  that  could  be  anticipated  with 
existing  protection  in  service  and functioning  properly.  PML  is  calculated  based  on  public  and 
private protection where all firefighting facilities are functioning.   
PML % is 35 

EML  Estimate:  EML  is  the  largest  loss  that  could  result  from  single  incident  in  the  building.  It 
assumed  that  the  initial  incident  is  so  large  that  the  active  protection  system  is  rendered 
inoperative (Not functioning) and only passive protection facilities such as spaces and fireproofing 
are effective. The size of loss can approach the value of the building of origin or entire facility. 

EML it might approach 100 %  

Page 8 of 11 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qatar General Insurance - Risk Survey Report for QAD-NET  

7-  Photos 

Office building  

Entrance to factory  

Some materials kept at the open yard     

Factory building 

Shaded area    

Machinery at factory    

Page 9 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qatar General Insurance - Risk Survey Report for QAD-NET  

Access and spaces  

Assemby of ducting    

Ducting final product      

Final Products for delivery  

Zinc bath for metal parts 

Drying of filters    

Workshop building    

Metal sheet rolls  

Wood used for wooden pallets   

Page 10 of 11 

 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qatar General Insurance - Risk Survey Report for QAD-NET  

Fire pump room    

Fire tank  

Fire alarm panel   

Hose reel cabinet   

Security room  

Frie pump room   

8-  Disclaimer  

It is acknowledged that this report is not intended to identify all hazards which may exist nor 
is  it  intended  to  be  an  exhaustive  review  of  all  possibilities  or  eventualities.  The 
recommendations for risk improvement contained in the report are purely advisory and the 
decision and responsibility for implementation rests with the client’s management. QGIRCO 
makes  no  representation  or  warranty  in  relation  to  the  accuracy  or  completeness  of 
information  contained  in  the  report  or  fitness  of  any  information  furnished  hereunder. 
Liability for indirect or consequential loss arising out of or in connection with the report is 
expressly excluded. 

Page 11 of 11